README.md, before:

# [Ingress NGINX Retirement: What You Need to Know](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/11/11/ingress-nginx-retirement/)

# Ingress NGINX Controller

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/5691/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/5691)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kubernetes/ingress-nginx.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kubernetes/ingress-nginx.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/stargazers)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-orange.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Overview

ingress-nginx is an Ingress controller for Kubernetes using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.org/) as a reverse proxy and load
balancer.

[Learn more about Ingress on the Kubernetes documentation site](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/).

## Get started

See the [Getting Started](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/) document.

Do not use in multi-tenant Kubernetes production installations. This project assumes that users that can create Ingress objects are administrators of the cluster. See the [FAQ](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/faq/#faq) for more.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, review the [troubleshooting docs](docs/troubleshooting.md),
[file an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/issues), or talk to us on the
[#ingress-nginx channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/ingress-nginx) on the Kubernetes Slack server.

## Changelog

See [the list of releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/releases) for all changes.
For detailed changes for each release, please check the [changelog-$version.md](./changelog) file for the release version.
For detailed changes on the `ingress-nginx` helm chart, please check the changelog folder for a specific version.
[CHANGELOG-$current-version.md](./charts/ingress-nginx/changelog) file.

### Supported Versions table

Supported versions for the ingress-nginx project mean that we have completed E2E tests, and they are passing for
the versions listed. Ingress-Nginx versions **may** work on older versions, but the project does not make that guarantee.

| Supported | Ingress-NGINX version | k8s supported version         | Alpine Version | Nginx Version | Helm Chart Version |
| :-------: | --------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
|    🔄     | **v1.14.1**           | 1.34, 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.14.1             |
|    🔄     | **v1.14.0**           | 1.34, 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.14.0             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.5**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.5             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.4**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.4             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.3**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.3             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.2**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.2             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.1**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.1             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.0**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.0         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.0             |
|           | v1.12.8               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.2         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.8             |
|           | v1.12.7               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.7             |
|           | v1.12.6               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.6             |
|           | v1.12.5               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.5             |
|           | v1.12.4               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.4             |
|           | v1.12.3               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.3             |
|           | v1.12.2               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.2             |
|           | v1.12.1               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.1             |
|           | v1.12.0               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.0             |
|           | v1.12.0-beta.0        | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.0-beta.0      |
|           | v1.11.8               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.22.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.8             |
|           | v1.11.7               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.7             |
|           | v1.11.6               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.6             |
|           | v1.11.5               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.5             |
|           | v1.11.4               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.4             |
|           | v1.11.3               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.3             |
|           | v1.11.2               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.2             |
|           | v1.11.1               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.1             |
|           | v1.11.0               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.0             |
|           | v1.10.6               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.6             |
|           | v1.10.5               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.5             |
|           | v1.10.4               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.4             |
|           | v1.10.3               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.3             |
|           | v1.10.2               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.2             |
|           | v1.10.1               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.19.1         | 1.25.3        | 4.10.1             |
|           | v1.10.0               | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26        | 3.19.1         | 1.25.3        | 4.10.0             |
|           | v1.9.6                | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25  | 3.19.0         | 1.21.6        | 4.9.1              |
|           | v1.9.5                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.9.0              |
|           | v1.9.4                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.3              |
|           | v1.9.3                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.9.1                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.9.0                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.8.4                | 1.27, 1.26, 1.25, 1.24        | 3.18.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.7.*              |
|           | v1.7.1                | 1.27, 1.26, 1.25, 1.24        | 3.17.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.6.*              |
|           | v1.6.4                | 1.26, 1.25, 1.24, 1.23        | 3.17.0         | 1.21.6        | 4.5.*              |
|           | v1.5.1                | 1.25, 1.24, 1.23              | 3.16.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.4.*              |
|           | v1.4.0                | 1.25, 1.24, 1.23, 1.22        | 3.16.2         | 1.19.10†      | 4.3.0              |
|           | v1.3.1                | 1.24, 1.23, 1.22, 1.21, 1.20  | 3.16.2         | 1.19.10†      | 4.2.5              |

See [this article](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/07/26/update-with-ingress-nginx/) if you want upgrade to the stable
Ingress API.

## Get Involved

Thanks for taking the time to join our community and start contributing!

- This project adheres to the [Kubernetes Community Code of Conduct](https://git.k8s.io/community/code-of-conduct.md).
  By participating in this project, you agree to abide by its terms.
- **Contributing**: Contributions of all kinds are welcome!

  - Read [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about setting up your environment, the workflow that we
    expect, and instructions on the developer certificate of origin that we require.
  - Join our Kubernetes Slack channel for developer discussion : [#ingress-nginx-dev](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C021E147ZA4).
  - Submit GitHub issues for any feature enhancements, bugs, or documentation problems.
    - Please make sure to read the [Issue Reporting Checklist](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-reporting-guidelines) before opening an issue. Issues not conforming to the guidelines **may be closed immediately**.
  - Join our [ingress-nginx-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/ingress-nginx-dev/c/ebbBMo-zX-w)
- **Support**:

  - Join the [#ingress-nginx-users](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/CANQGM8BA/) channel inside the [Kubernetes Slack](http://slack.kubernetes.io/) to ask questions or get support from the maintainers and other users.
  - The [GitHub issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/issues) in the repository are **exclusively** for bug reports and feature requests.
  - **Discuss**: Tweet using the `#IngressNginx` hashtag or sharing with us [@IngressNginx](https://twitter.com/IngressNGINX).

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Update documentation to highlight that the project is retiring (#14364)
Signed-off-by: Josh Soref <2119212+jsoref@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Ingress NGINX Retirement

## Retiring

[What You Need to Know about Ingress NGINX Retirement](https://www.kubernetes.io/blog/2025/11/11/ingress-nginx-retirement/):

* Best-effort maintenance will continue until March 2026.
* Afterward, there will be no further releases, no bugfixes, and no updates to resolve any security vulnerabilities that may be discovered.
* Existing deployments of Ingress NGINX will not be broken.
  * Existing project artifacts such as Helm charts and container images will remain available.

# Ingress NGINX Controller

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/5691/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/5691)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kubernetes/ingress-nginx.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kubernetes/ingress-nginx.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/stargazers)

## Overview

ingress-nginx was an Ingress controller for Kubernetes using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.org/) as a reverse proxy and load
balancer.

[Learn more about Ingress on the Kubernetes documentation site](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/).

## Usage warnings

If you are not already using ingress-nginx, you should not be deploying it as it is [not being developed](#retiring). Instead you should identify a [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides/) implementation and use it.

Do not use in multi-tenant Kubernetes production installations. This project assumes that users that can create Ingress objects are administrators of the cluster. See the [FAQ](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/faq/#faq) for more.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, review the [troubleshooting docs](docs/troubleshooting.md),
[search for an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/issues), or talk to us on the
[#ingress-nginx-users channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/ingress-nginx-users) on the Kubernetes Slack server.

## Changelog

See [the list of releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/releases) for all changes.
For detailed changes for each release, please check the [changelog-$version.md](./changelog) file for the release version.
For detailed changes on the `ingress-nginx` helm chart, please check the changelog folder for a specific version.
[CHANGELOG-$current-version.md](./charts/ingress-nginx/changelog) file.

### Supported Versions table

Supported versions for the ingress-nginx project mean that we have completed E2E tests, and they are passing for
the versions listed. Ingress-Nginx versions **may** work on older versions, but the project does not make that guarantee.

| Supported | Ingress-NGINX version | k8s supported version         | Alpine Version | Nginx Version | Helm Chart Version |
| :-------: | --------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
|    🔄     | **v1.14.1**           | 1.34, 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.14.1             |
|    🔄     | **v1.14.0**           | 1.34, 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.14.0             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.5**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.5             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.4**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.2         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.4             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.3**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.3             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.2**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.2             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.1**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.1         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.1             |
|    🔄     | **v1.13.0**           | 1.33, 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29  | 3.22.0         | 1.27.1        | 4.13.0             |
|           | v1.12.8               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.2         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.8             |
|           | v1.12.7               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.7             |
|           | v1.12.6               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.6             |
|           | v1.12.5               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.1         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.5             |
|           | v1.12.4               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.22.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.4             |
|           | v1.12.3               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.3             |
|           | v1.12.2               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.2             |
|           | v1.12.1               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.1             |
|           | v1.12.0               | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.0             |
|           | v1.12.0-beta.0        | 1.32, 1.31, 1.30, 1.29, 1.28  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.12.0-beta.0      |
|           | v1.11.8               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.22.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.8             |
|           | v1.11.7               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.7             |
|           | v1.11.6               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.6             |
|           | v1.11.5               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.5             |
|           | v1.11.4               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.4             |
|           | v1.11.3               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.3             |
|           | v1.11.2               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.2             |
|           | v1.11.1               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.1             |
|           | v1.11.0               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.11.0             |
|           | v1.10.6               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.21.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.6             |
|           | v1.10.5               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.3         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.5             |
|           | v1.10.4               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.4             |
|           | v1.10.3               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.3             |
|           | v1.10.2               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.20.0         | 1.25.5        | 4.10.2             |
|           | v1.10.1               | 1.30, 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26  | 3.19.1         | 1.25.3        | 4.10.1             |
|           | v1.10.0               | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26        | 3.19.1         | 1.25.3        | 4.10.0             |
|           | v1.9.6                | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25  | 3.19.0         | 1.21.6        | 4.9.1              |
|           | v1.9.5                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.9.0              |
|           | v1.9.4                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.3              |
|           | v1.9.3                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.9.1                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.4         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.9.0                | 1.28, 1.27, 1.26, 1.25        | 3.18.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.8.*              |
|           | v1.8.4                | 1.27, 1.26, 1.25, 1.24        | 3.18.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.7.*              |
|           | v1.7.1                | 1.27, 1.26, 1.25, 1.24        | 3.17.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.6.*              |
|           | v1.6.4                | 1.26, 1.25, 1.24, 1.23        | 3.17.0         | 1.21.6        | 4.5.*              |
|           | v1.5.1                | 1.25, 1.24, 1.23              | 3.16.2         | 1.21.6        | 4.4.*              |
|           | v1.4.0                | 1.25, 1.24, 1.23, 1.22        | 3.16.2         | 1.19.10†      | 4.3.0              |
|           | v1.3.1                | 1.24, 1.23, 1.22, 1.21, 1.20  | 3.16.2         | 1.19.10†      | 4.2.5              |

See [Updating NGINX-Ingress to use the stable Ingress API (July 26, 2021)](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/07/26/update-with-ingress-nginx/)
to upgrade to the stable Ingress API before upgrading to Kubernetes 1.22.

## Get Involved

Thanks for taking the time to join our community and start contributing!

- This project adheres to the [Kubernetes Community Code of Conduct](https://git.k8s.io/community/code-of-conduct.md).
  By participating in this project, you agree to abide by its terms.
- **Contributing**: Documentation contributions are welcome.

  - Read [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about the workflow that we
    expect and instructions on the developer certificate of origin that we require.
  - Join our Kubernetes Slack channel for developer discussion : [#ingress-nginx-dev](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C021E147ZA4).
  - Submit GitHub issues for documentation problems.
    - Please make sure to read the [Issue Reporting Checklist](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-reporting-guidelines) before opening an issue. Issues not conforming to the guidelines **may be closed immediately**.

- **Support**:

  - Join the [#ingress-nginx-users](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/CANQGM8BA/) channel inside the [Kubernetes Slack](http://slack.kubernetes.io/) to ask questions or get support from the maintainers and other users.
  - The [GitHub issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/issues) in the repository are **exclusively** for bug reports and feature requests.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/LICENSE)
